# Real Time Day Night Classisfier

This Project aims to develop and deploy a Real Time Classifier to classify a recorded video as day and night. This aim looks common and simple all it requires is a set of training and test images and a neural to be trained to classify the images using tensorflow but here is the catch installing tensorflow package may be easy in a high powered Laptop/Computers but it's still difficult to do the same in single board computers like Raspberry Pi. So, here in this project I used a ZERO ML APPROACH, first of all I read the video frame by frame then I just convert the normal RGB frame returned by the imread() into an HSV image which stands for Hue, Saturation, Value. Now it's time to focus only on the parameter "Value". This actually refers to the brightness of a single pixel. Hence I added the brightness of every pixel then calculated its average value. I used a threshold brightness value of 120(or 100 in some cases). This is enough to classify the frames as day/night and now this only uses the opencv package and can be installed without any complexities even in a SBC. Thus allowing to build many projects with PiCam and a Raspberry Pi involving a day/night classification approach like building a car with Self Driving Capability requires to turn on "HeadLights" in night time, or it may be useful in the raspberry pi based surveillance system or an automation system which turns on the street lights in night time. Also this approach yielded in a surprising accuracy of 90.42%.
